# VBA_Challenge

## Overview of the Project
The purpose of this report was to use stock market data on an excel sheet to figure out for our client, Steve, what are some good investsments to make based on a handful of chosen stock market tickers that he has chosen. Using the data given we decided to calculate the return for all stocks for the given years, 2017 and 2018. We had already run this data prior but had to refactor it to display information on every stock ticker rather than just one specific ticker. 

## Results
By looking at the attached file VBA_Challenge_2017.png it can be seen that almost every ticker except "TERP" had a positive return, with lowest return 5.5% on ticker "RUN" and the highest was on "DQ" with a 199.4%. When we move on to VBA_Challenge_2018.png almost every ticker has now dropped into the negative reutrns, except "ENPH" which was still seeing a positive 81.9% return and "Run" which went from a -7.2% return in 2017 to a 84.0% return the next year. The results could benefit more if we had more years of stock information to go on to see hwo the companies are doing on a longer timeline, as two years of information is not a lot to make inferences on when making a decison on which companies to invest in on the stock market. 

### Summary
Refactoring code can be a tricky assignment with pros and cons for doing so. A code that has already been written for you is a great way to lay the ground work for what you need to be doing. It may provide insight on the project you are about to be undertaking, whether it be for the code that needs to be written or little comments written in the code by the orignal author. It can be especially helpful if there was little to no information given prior to beginning the project. Refactoring code can is also useful because it allows a new set of eyes to see the code and add in something that they feel may have been missing in the code to make it run better or create an output that is more desirable or please to the eye. However, re-writing code that has already been written can have its own problems as well. Syntax errors are easier to make when you are taking parts of old code out and putting new code in. Where you change one variable early in the code you may not notice it later on and it causes issues down the line.  
The orignal VBA script that was written for this started out as a script to print out just one ticker price, which can be seen as both a positive or a negative depening on what information you are looking for. The new script also added in the coloring for the out, putting negative returns in red and positive in green, making the output easier to assess at a glance. The script having already been written ahead of time and requiring a few tweaks made the process simpler. However, the issues that came up when attempting to run the refacoted script were caused by syntax issues casued by changing variables around and adding in new code.    